# 2 Dec 2019

Created: Dec 02, 2019 9:54 PM
Created By: Harishankar Vishwanathan
Last Edited Time: Dec 02, 2019 10:00 PM

- Kmer struct entries in the hash table:
    - We don't need a long count length. 32bits/4bytes for now should be enough.
    - k =100 (100-mer) for now. 3bits per k-mer. 300 bits for one 100-mer.
    - It is okay even if a k-mer is not 64 bytes in length, and spills over to next cache-line.
    - Later: see how much k we can support, see how much count we can support
    - Later: see effect of cache-aligning kmer struct entries: have 2 configs.

- Cityhash
    - 64 bit hash should be enough for now.
    - 128 bit hash was used to uniquely identify kmers, and kmers were compared by comparing their hashes. That isn't needed now because we are storing the k-mer data in the table.
    - Look into SIMD powered string compare / c++ string compare which is written close to assembly.

- Follow STD hash table API guidelines
    - our hash table should be pluggable into test/benchmarking code, just like other hash table.

- Prefetch:
    - Later: look into disable hardware prefetch, use only software prefetch.

- Read:
    - Comparison survey paper
    - figure out what kind of data is used in benchmarks.

- Testing our standalone hash table:
    - one NUMA node, split data across all CPUs, spawining as many threads as possible.
    - Stop/start all threads at the same time to start k-mer counting on partitioned hash table.
    - Get numbers (ops/sec) for now
    - Later: compare against other hash tables.