# 21 Nov 2019

Created: Dec 02, 2019 9:55 PM
Created By: Harishankar Vishwanathan
Last Edited Time: Dec 02, 2019 9:57 PM

- what problems are we trying to solve?
    - k-mer counting problem and how to do it fast.
- coverage is important
    - wikipedia: C = NxL/G
- k-mer distribution in a genome
    - "the majority of k-mers appear only once, as they are unique due to sequencing errors and because most genomic sequences are not composed of repeats. Most of the remaining k-mers occur approximately c times, where c is the sequencing coverage.A small number of k-mers, depending on the repetitiveness of the genome, occur a large number of times essentially we will increment the counter just once a majority of the times.
- hash-tables / hashing function
    - hash function matrix, how does it work?
    - compare vs. cityhash, bytell. why not use those instead?
        - can we get away with cityhash, even if it is fuzzy?
    - paper uses some trick to multiply matrices.
        - invertibility of matrix means what?
        - easier to re-create last l bits?
- why is jellyfish trying to save memory?
    - 2k bits needed to encode a k-mer
    with saving, 2k-l bits to encode k-mer
    100-mer:
    => 200 bits (25 bytes) to encode
    => 200-30 = 170 bits (21 bytes) to encode,
    if hash table size is 2^30 = 1073741824, and l = 24
    space saving:
    for a full hash-table without space saving: 25 GB
    for space saving hash-table: 21 GB
    - Should we give up on memory savings if we gain computation speed?
- other optimizations
prefetching, does Jellyfish do this?
CAS and how does it work w.r.t caches?
- Daniel's paper
Why does he shoot for so much memory? what is his workload?
- Superpages
    - If we are creating a super large hash table, using superpages almost doubles the speed of memory access
    - linux has an interface, use that